.. _frep-2003:

FREP 2003 - Operation state manager for controlled devices
==========================================================

.. sidebar:: 
    :name: Document details

    | **Author**: Christoph Hellmann Santos
    | **Version**: 0.1
    | **Status**: Draft
    | **Type**: Specification
    | **Created**: 2021-03-01

.. contents:: Document contents
   :depth: 4
   :backlinks: top


Abstract
--------
This specification details how the operation state manager for controlled
devices should be implemented. The operation state manager specificaiton is a simple
compatability layer for managing the state of controlled devices, independent
of the underlying control system.

Motivation
----------
In order to create truely interoperable device drivers, the operation
state of the drivers needs to be managed in a uniform way.

Definitions
-----------


Interface Description
---------------------

TBD


Behavior Description
----------------------
In order to enable interoperability between different device drivers,
the device drivers should implement a common state machine for communication
and switching of the devices operational state.

.. drawio-figure:: figures/device-state.drawio
    :align: center
    
    Operation state machine


.. csv-table:: States
    :header: "State", "Description"
    :widths: 10, 50

    "Initialising", "The device is not ready to be controlled. This can have different reasons e.g. the connection the device is not yet established, the device is booting up, ..."
    "Ready", "The device is ready to be controlled."
    "Controlled", "The device is currently being controlled."
    "Error", "The device is currently not being controlled and is in an error state."
    "Recovering", "The device is currently recovering from an error."
    "Shutdown", "The device is shutting down."

.. csv-table:: Triggered Transitions
    :align: center
    :header: "Transition", "Description"
    :widths: 10, 50

    "1", "Triggering control of the device."
    "2", "Triggering release of control of the device."
    "3", "Triggering shutdown of the device."
    "4", "Triggering recovery of the device."
    "5", "Triggering hot configuration switch of the device."


**Initialising**:
In the state intialising the operation manager waits for other components to become
available and ready. This can be the connection to the device, the hardware interface,
controllers and other things. The initialising state is left as soon as all required 
components are ready.

**Ready**:
In the ready state the device waits for a trigger to switch to another state. The state
actively monitors the availability of the required components and switches automatically
to the error state if one of the necessary components becomes unavailable.

**Controlled**:
In the controlled state, the device is controlled. The operation manager monitors
the availability of the required components and switches automatically
to the error state if one of the necessary components becomes unavailable.